EZEE-3337 - Image Editor description (#91)
ezsystems/user-documentation: docs/editing_images.md

# Editing images

> When you browse the [Media library](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/content_model/#content-and-media), or create or edit a Content Item that contains the *Image* 

Reviewer: Image editor in browse?

> When you browse the [Media library](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/content_model/#content-and-media), or create or edit a Content Item that contains the *Image* 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you browse the [Media library](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/content_model/#content-and-media),
or create or edit a Content Item that contains an *Image* 
```

> or the *Image asset* Field, you can perform basic image editing functions by using an Image Editor. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or *Image asset* Field, you can perform basic image editing functions by using the Image Editor. 
```

> The Image Editor function set includes: 

Reviewer 2: How about:

```suggestion
The Image Editor enables: 
```

* image cropping 
* image flipping
* setting a point of focus within an image

> Image Editor is available whenever you see the Edit icon on the preview.

Reviewer 2: Might be misleading, there's an edit button for content vs an edit button for an image inside Content item

Author: That is why I wrote *Edit* icon and added an image below to show it.

![Image editor icon](img/image_editor_icon.png)

> After you open the Image Editor screen, you see the image preview area, and a pane on the right that contains different configuration options and buttons.

Reviewer 2: I think can do without this sentence. We don't specifically describe screens elsewhere in the guide

> After you open the Image Editor screen, you see the image preview area, and a pane on the right that contains different configuration options and buttons.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Flip

With the Flip feature you mirror the image along a horizontal or vertical axis.
Click either the **Horizontal** or **Vertical** button to flip an image.

### Crop

With the Crop feature you can cut the image down to a desired aspect ratio and dimensions.

> You can either choose one of the preset aspect ratio options (square, vertical or horizontal rectangle, or widescreen), or click **Random** to enter the exact width and hight values in the **Crop size** area. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either choose one of the preset aspect ratio options (square, vertical or horizontal rectangle, or widescreen), or click **Custom** to enter the exact width and hight values in the **Crop size** area. 
```

Reviewer: You can set exact values even if the aspect ratio is selected

> You can either choose one of the preset aspect ratio options (square, vertical or horizontal rectangle, or widescreen), or click **Random** to enter the exact width and hight values in the **Crop size** area. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either choose one of the preset aspect ratio options (square, vertical or horizontal rectangle, or widescreen), or click **Random** to enter the exact width and height values in the **Crop size** area. 
```

> After you choose a preset aspect ratio, a grid appears on the preview.

Reviewer: grid appears in the custom ratio as well

You can resize the grid to mark an area of the image that you want to be visible.

> Click the tick icon to confirm the change once you are happy with the results.
> Click the X icon to abort the changes and clear the preview.

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion:

```suggestion
Click the tick icon to confirm the change or the X icon to cancel it.
```

When you confirm the change, the preview refreshes to display a cropped image.

!!! note "Saving changes"

    Confirming the crop operation does not mean that it has been saved.
    You must click **Save** to apply the changes to the original image.

### Focal Point

> If your page contains an image that is larger that a current viewport, for example when a user accesses the page from a mobile phone, you can select a point on the image that the view should focus on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your page contains an image that is larger than the current viewport, for example when a user accesses the page from a mobile phone,
you can select a point on the image that the view should focus on.
```

> This way, when a responsive image is automatically cropped to fit the viewport, the area that contains the selected point is always visible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This way, when a responsive image is automatically cropped to fit the viewport,
the area that contains the selected point is always visible.
```

> Click the **Show point** button, and a target appears on the preview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the **Show point** button to see a target on the preview.
```

Drag the target to a point on the image that you want to focus on.
Click the X icon to restore the original position of the target.

### Undoing changes

> Click either the left or right arrow button to undo or redo the most recent change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the left or right arrow button to undo or redo the most recent change.
```
Also, this would be a good place for a screenshot.

> Click **Reset image** to restore the original appearance of the image. Resetting the image does not affect the Focal Point setting.

Reviewer: > Resetting the image does not affect the Focal Point setting.

ekhm, it a bug. It should reset to original values as undo restore previous position. :)

Author: OK, fixed as suggested. Please approve

### Saving or aborting changes

> Click **Save** to apply your edits to the original image and navigate away from the Image Editor screen. Click **Cancel** to abort your changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Save** to apply your edits to the original image and exit the Image Editor screen.
```

# Editing images

> When you browse the [Media library](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/content_model/#content-and-media), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you browse the [Media library](content_model.md#content-and-media), 
```
